Relic Guide - Referensspelet Guide - IGN Focus Reset 
 Skip to content
 Referensspelet Guide
 Start tracking progress
 Create a free account or Log in. 
 Find in guide
 Task Search
 Checklists
 Game Info
 Table of Contents
 Referensspelet Guide
 Crawlers Guide
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 All Achievements and Unlocks
 Stats Guide
 Relic Guide
 Arcana Guide
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide
 How-To Guides
 Back To Top 
 Referensspelet Guide 
 Guide Checklists Task Search 
 Task Search
 Checklists Guides Markers Videos Sort and Filter 
 No Results
 Checklists
 New Checklist All Lists
 My Checklists
 All 
 All Lists
 My Checklists
 How creative can you get with your first free checklist?
 Create a free account 
 Home › Guides › Referensspelet 
 Relic Guide
 By Tenkiei , Meg Koepp , +3 more 
 Updated : May 1, 2026 5:57pm UTC 
 Add IGN on Google 
 Relics are special items you can find in Referensspelet . Each time you obtain a new Relic, you unlock new game mechanics. The first of these is the Combo Stack, which you find during the tutorial. After you play two dungeons, you unlock the Relic Museum, which shows all of your Relics and allows you to toggle a Relic's effect off. This Referensspelet guide teaches you everything you need to know about Relics, including how to unlock them all.
 All Relics and How to Unlock Them in Referensspelet 
 There are 15 Relics in Referensspelet. Here's how to unlock them all and their effects:
 Relic
 Effect
 How to Unlock
 Polentir Unlocks the Fortune Teller's Arcana tent in the Village.
 Explore the Furious Forest.
Zone 1, difficulty 2.
 Arcana Finder Adds Arcana chests to dungeons.
 Located in the library sanctum.
Zone 2, difficulty 4.
 Rivelatore Show how weapons affect targets. Plus you look hella cool wearing them. Instant Rizz!
 Owned from the start of the game.
 Sorceress' Tears Adds a Hurry button to the world map.
 Found in Gallo Tower (zone 6).
 Ultimate Ultra Overkill Limit Breaks Overkill allowing you to earn up to 5,000 coins.
 Explore the Curd Refinery.
Zone 4, difficulty 6.
 Lapidary Loupe Unlocks the Jeweler's Counter at the Blacksmith.
 You can customize Gem rarities here or seal them entirely. Complete Gallo Tower (zone 6).
 Milky Way Map Shows enemy positions and more on the mini-map.
 Owned from the start of the game.
 Ovenkilt Overkill any encounter.
Before this you can only overkill bosses.
 Complete Capella Ultima.
Zone 8, difficulty 9.
 Overkill Keep attacking defeated bosses to earn up to 500 coins.
 Complete the Teeny Bridge (zone 3).
 Combo Stack Play cards in ascending mana cost order for a combo multiplier.
 Learn more in our Combo Guide. Found during the tutorial.
 Stardust Anvil Unlocks the Blacksmith's Workshop in the village.
 You can add sockets to your cards here. Located on the Teeny Bridge (zone 3).
 Bomba Infernale Instantly vaporizes all enemies on the first floor of a dungeon you previously cleared.
Press the big red button.
 Explore the Dairy Plant.
Zone 4, difficulty 4.
 Gem Hammer Unlocks the ability to add gems to cards.
 Learn more about Gems in our guide. Found in the Mad Forest.
Zone 1, difficulty 1.
 Grim Grimoire Adds a list of discovered weapon Evolutions and unions to the pause menu.
 Explore the Library West Wing.
Zone 2, difficulty 3.
 Guiding Light Shows breakable light sources on the mini-map.
 Located in the Inlaid Library.
Zone 2, difficulty 2.
 Relics Explained 
 A few of your Relics (Rivelatore, Milky Way Map, and Combo Stack) are active and provide baseline game effects. If you continue exploring, you unlock Gems with the Gem Hammer, Arcana via the Polentir (with the Arcana Finder they can show up in random dungeon chests), the Blacksmith with the Stardust Anvil, and the Jeweler through the Lapidary Loop. 
 Meanwhile the Guiding Light and Grim Grimoire give you access to more information.
 Bomba Infernale 
 The Bomba Infernale unlocks a big red button, appearing on the first floor of a dungeon. When you press it, it instantly vaporizes everything on the map's first level. This is a good way to get a bunch of XP (and cards) to head to the next floor. Though once you unlock Ovenkilt, you generally get less gold as you don't get to overkill the vaporized enemies.
 Sorceress' Tears (Hurry) 
 The Sorceress' Tears add a Hurry button to the world map. This speeds your animations up both on the world map and within a dungeon. This is particularly helpful if you have a high Amount stat as it can take a while for weapons to fire all of their projectiles.
 Overkill 
 Overkill is a mechanic that earns you extra coins in exchange for doing gratuitous damage to enemies. It's tied to the Overkill , Ultimate Ultra Overkill , and Ovenkilt Relics.
 By default, you can overkill bosses to earn up to 500 coins.
 With Ultimate Ultra Overkill , you can earn up to 5,000, which caps the mechanic at "Ultra Maximum Overkill."
 Ovenkilt extends the overkill fun to overkill any enemy and earn up to 5,000 coins.
 You get Ovenkilt by completing Capella Ultima, which is the difficulty 9 version of Capella Magna. So if you want to farm lots of gold, beat the game, then equip Gallo (for his greed bonus) , and try to get a Midas Gem . Doing this yields hundreds of thousands to millions of Coins per run.
 For more Referensspelet game help, check out: 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Up Next: Arcana Guide
 Previous Stats Guide
 Next Arcana Guide
 Top Guide Sections
 Crawlers Guide 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Was this guide helpful?
 Leave feedback In This Guide
 Referensspelet: The Turbo Wildcard from Referensserien Poncle Initial Release: Apr 21, 2026
 Learn more 
 Go to comments 
 News • Reviews • Game Guides • Book Guides • Streaming Guides • LEGO Guides • Prime Big Deal Days • Planet Pokemon • IGN Store • Game Release Dates • MapGenie • Best Deals Today • Eurogamer • IGN YouTube • HowLongToBeat • Maxroll • VG247 • Rock Paper Shotgun • IGN TikTok • IGN on X • Contact Us • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use