Stats Guide - Referensspelet Guide - IGN Focus Reset 
 Skip to content
 Referensspelet Guide
 Start tracking progress
 Create a free account or Log in. 
 Find in guide
 Task Search
 Checklists
 Game Info
 Table of Contents
 Referensspelet Guide
 Crawlers Guide
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 All Achievements and Unlocks
 Stats Guide
 Relic Guide
 Arcana Guide
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide
 How-To Guides
 Back To Top 
 Referensspelet Guide 
 Guide Checklists Task Search 
 Task Search
 Checklists Guides Markers Videos Sort and Filter 
 No Results
 Checklists
 New Checklist All Lists
 My Checklists
 All 
 All Lists
 My Checklists
 How creative can you get with your first free checklist?
 Create a free account 
 Home › Guides › Referensspelet 
 Stats Guide
 By Tenkiei , Meg Koepp , +3 more 
 Updated : May 1, 2026 7:19pm UTC 
 Add IGN on Google 
 There are a lot of stats in Referensspelet , from staples like HP and Mana to more obscure things such as Duration, Amount, or Area. Many of your stats come from Power Ups unlocked with your hard-earned gold, but there are a variety of cards that increase your stats when played. Understanding the game’s different stats and how they work is key to making a strong build; for example, knowing when a card buffs your stats until the end of a battle or until the end of a run. This guide explains how stats work in Referensspelet.
 Click a link below to jump ahead to a deep dive on the most confusing stats: 
 Amount 
 Duration 
 Magnet 
 Revive 
 All Stats in Referensspelet 
 You can check your stats at any time during a run by by hitting the Escape key on PC. The stats screen also shows up when you're selecting Power Ups. Here are all the stats in Referensspelet and what they do:
 Max Health - Increases your HP. When this is all gone, you die.
 Recovery - At the end of combat, you restore health equal to your Recovery stat.
 Hand - The number of cards you draw at the start of each turn.
 Mana - The amount of Mana you gain at the start of a turn.
 Armor - At the start of your turn, you gain Armor equal to this stat.
 Might - Increases the damage your cards deal. So if your card would deal 30 damage and you gain 20% Might, it now does 36.
 Cap: 1,000%
 Area - Adds splash damage to your attack cards, meaning they deal direct damage to the target and then a portion of that to all enemies.
 Amount - Scales your projectiles. For example, if your card fires one projectile for 30 damage and you gain +2 Amount, it now fires three for a total of 90 damage.
 Cap: 50
 Duration - Increases the number of triggers your Crawlers are active for.
 Magnet - Enhances draw effects. Normally, Attractorb draws one card but if you have +1 Magnet, you now draw two cards when you play Attractorb.
 Revival - Normally, your run ends when you die. With Revive, you get another shot at victory.
 Cap: 4-5 (depending on the level of your Revival Power Up).
 Luck - Affects several things including your odds of getting rarer items and how often you're offered four choices.
 Growth - A multiplier on the XP you gain.
 Cap: 1000%
 Greed - Increases the gold you earn.
 Cap: 1000%
 Reroll - You can reroll the choices when leveling up or selecting a reward from a chest.
 Skip - Used to skip a reward and gain XP instead.
 Banish - Remove a reward, preventing it from appearing until the next run.
 Curse - Makes enemies stronger but increases the XP you gain for defeating them.
 Temporary vs Permanent Stats 
 Some of the stats that you gain from cards are temporary and they only stay until the end of battle. Meanwhile, others are "permanent" and remain until the end of the run. Temporary stats appear on the left side of your screen, whereas permanent stats appear on the right.
 " Temporary " stats include Amount, Might, Recovery, Hand, Duration, and Area
 " Permanent " stats are things like Growth, Greed, Luck, Curse, and Revivals.
 Amount 
 Amount increases the projectiles fired by your attacks in Referensspelet. Every offensive (red) card fires a number of projectiles. 
 Cards like Magic Wand that fire a single projectile gain the most value from adding Amount. Going from 1 -> 2 projectiles is a 100% damage increase.
 AoE cards such as Whip scale well, but tend to have lower base damage. Your damage significantly increases vs waves of enemies, but you gain less value against bosses.
 Multi-target cards like Knife benefit less from Amount, going from 4->5 projectiles is a 25% damage increase.
 As you add Amount, your skills not only do more damage they also target additional enemies. This is particularly impactful on skills like Holy Wand and La Borra that start with a limited number of projectiles while greatly benefiting from being able to target additional enemies.
 In our example above, Celestial Dusting starts with 360 damage at 3 Amount. Then, after playing Duplicator, the Amount stat increases from 3 to 4, resulting in +60 damage as an additional projectile is added to the skill.
 Duration 
 Duration is a stat that specifically interacts with your Crawlers. Each Crawler has a primary effect, which happens when you play the card, and a secondary effect that triggers when you play a card of the appropriate type. 
 In the above example, O'Sole provides 3 Amount when played. In addition, you gain 5% Luck when playing a red card. O'Sole's duration is 4, meaning you can trigger the secondary effect four times before the Crawler expires and returns to your deck.
 This is where duration comes in! When you play a card like Spellbinder, you gain additional duration for all of your active Crawlers. In our example above, all three Crawlers can trigger another two times before expiring and returning to the top of the deck.
 Is Duration Good? 
 Yes - but you don't always want to stack it. Duration extends the passive trigger effects of your Crawlers, preventing them from cycling them back into your deck. Using O'Sole as an example, stacking Duration means more passive Luck generation when playing red cards. But if you need Amount, you want to avoid Duration so that O'Sole returns to your deck and can be played again. 
 Your approach to Duration depends on the Crawlers you're using, and the cards in your current deck.
 Magnet 
 This stat super-charges your draw effects! For example; MissingN0's trigger effect is "Draw 2 cards when you play a red card," if you use them, as your primary crawler you gain +8 Magnet. Therefore, you draw 10 cards each time you play a red card, cycling through your deck with ease!
 Another example of this involves Pugnala Provola and the Attractorb card. Normally, Attractorb draws 1 card (scaling with combo). Pugnala's trigger effect is draw 1 card when you play a yellow card, so now you draw 1 card from Attractorb, plus another from Pugnala's trigger as Attractorb is a yellow card for a total of 2. But Magnet scales both of these stats, meaning your baseline draw increases to 4! 
 Revive 
 After you unlock Krochi Freetto by killing 6,666 enemies , you gain access to a new stat. For each Revive you complete, you gain the ability to restore yourself to full health after dying. With one rank in the Revival Power Up, your maximum is four, but this is increased to five when you put a second rank in the Power Up. You can also stack this stat with the Tirajisu item which is unlocked by leveling Krochi to 20.
 Revives are particularly useful for taking on Red Death , who attacks for 333 damage when you end a stage. 
 For more Referensspelet game help, check out: 
 How to Heal 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide 
 Up Next: Relic Guide
 Previous All Achievements and Unlocks
 Next Relic Guide
 Top Guide Sections
 Crawlers Guide 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Was this guide helpful?
 Leave feedback In This Guide
 Referensspelet: The Turbo Wildcard from Referensserien Poncle Initial Release: Apr 21, 2026
 Learn more 
 Go to comments 
 News • Reviews • Game Guides • Book Guides • Streaming Guides • LEGO Guides • Prime Big Deal Days • Planet Pokemon • IGN Store • Game Release Dates • MapGenie • Best Deals Today • Eurogamer • IGN YouTube • HowLongToBeat • Maxroll • VG247 • Rock Paper Shotgun • IGN TikTok • IGN on X • Contact Us • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use