All Weapon Evolutions and Unions - Referensspelet Guide - IGN Focus Reset 
 Skip to content
 Referensspelet Guide
 Start tracking progress
 Create a free account or Log in. 
 Find in guide
 Task Search
 Checklists
 Game Info
 Table of Contents
 Referensspelet Guide
 Crawlers Guide
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 All Achievements and Unlocks
 Stats Guide
 Relic Guide
 Arcana Guide
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide
 How-To Guides
 Back To Top 
 Referensspelet Guide 
 Guide Checklists Task Search 
 Task Search
 Checklists Guides Markers Videos Sort and Filter 
 No Results
 Checklists
 New Checklist All Lists
 My Checklists
 All 
 All Lists
 My Checklists
 How creative can you get with your first free checklist?
 Create a free account 
 Home › Guides › Referensspelet 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 By Tenkiei , Meg Koepp , +3 more 
 Updated : May 1, 2026 5:29pm UTC 
 Add IGN on Google 
 In Referensspelet , you evolve your cards by obtaining a special Evolution Gem and sacrificing the correct weapon and item (or weapon and weapon) combination. Evolutions are generally more powerful in exchange for a higher Mana cost. Eventually, there’s a way to track evolutions in-game, but at first, you need to rely on memory alone - or you can use this page to help. This guide lists all weapon evolutions in Referensspelet and explains how to evolve your cards.
 Click a link below to jump to that section of this Referensspelet guide: 
 All Weapon Evolutions - Cheat Sheet 
 How to Evolve Cards 
 Grim Grimoire Location 
 All Weapon Evolutions in Referensspelet - Cheat Sheet 
 When it comes to evolution in Referensspelet, the item type matters, but the exact card used does not. So, for example, to create the Holy Wand , you combine Magic Wand with a Tome , but it doesn't matter if you use the Empty Tome, Light Tome, Weighty Tome , or Ancient Tome to do this.
 Here are all the weapon evolutions in Referensspelet, including Mana cost, damage, and effects:
 Evolution
 Weapon(s)
 Item
 Evolution Effect
 Bloody Tear
 Whip
 Heart
 Costs 2 Mana 
Deals 40 damage
Heal 2 on Crit
 Holy Wand
 Magic Wand
 Tome
 Costs 2 Mana
Deals 160 damage
Prioritizes Attackers
 NO FUTURE
 Runetracer
 Armor
 Costs 3 Mana
Deals 15 damage
Bounces and explodes
 Thousand Edge
 Knife
 Bracer
 Costs 3 Mana
Deals 200 damage
Crit
 Hellfire
 Fire Wand
 Spinach
 Costs 3 Mana 
Deals 225 damage
Knockback
 Thunder Loop
 Thunder Ring
 Duplicator
 Costs 4 Mana
Deals 150 damage
Deals damage again at end of turn
 Death Spiral
 Axe
 Candle
 Costs 3 Mana 
Deals 160 damage
Crit
 Soul Eater
 Garlic
 Pummarola
 Costs 3 Mana
Deals 20 damage
Heal 2 and Disarm
 Unholy Vespers
 King Bible
 Spellbinder
 Costs 2 Mana
Deals 120 damage
Knockback
 Heaven Sword
 Cross
 Clover
 Costs 3 Mana
Deals 100 damage
Crit
 Gorgeous Moon
 Pentagram
 Crown
 Costs 1-5 Mana 
Erase enemies
Moonrise
 Phieraggi
 Phiera Der Tuphello + Eight the Sparrow
 Tirajisu
 Costs 4 Mana 
Deals 350 damage
 Valkyrie Turner
 Shadow Pinion
 Wings
 Costs 2 Mana 
Deals 25 damage 
Valkyrie's Inferno
 Mannajja
 Song of Mana
 Skull O'Maniac
 Costs 5 Mana
Deals 79 damage
Raw Mana
 La Borra
 Santa Water
 Attractorb
 Costs 4 Mana
Deals 150 damage 
Burns enemies at the end of the turn
 Vicious Hunger
 Gatti Amari
 Mask
 Costs 2 Mana
Deals 100 damage
May turn enemies into Coins
 Vandalier
 Peachone + Ebony Wings
 N/A
 Costs 5 Mana
Deals 500 damage
Knockback and Big Bird
 Knockback has a chance to push enemies back a row, preventing melee attacks.
 Disarm has a chance to prevent an attack (though some enemies can resist this).
 Erase destroys enemies and gives bonus XP.
 Moonrise increases the effect and adds +1 Mana cost (resetting after 5).
 Valkyrie's Inferno builds up damage as you play cards.
 Raw Mana provides a Wild Card that generates Mana when played.
 Big Bird clears all birds for a burst of damage.
 RNG effects like May turn enemies into Coins are enhanced by the Luck stat.
 How to Evolve Cards in Referensspelet 
 In Referensspelet, Evolution involves obtaining the correct weapon and/or item combination and then applying an Evolution Gem to the weapon. This means you cannot typically evolve weapons after socketing Gems into them, and you also cannot socket Gems into Evolved cards with only one gem socket. 
 You're most likely to encounter Evolution for the first time through an Evolution statue. It looks identical to the Mana statue but has a red orb instead of a blue one.
 When you find an Evolution statue, pick a card to evolve from the Evolution Gem. If you don't have any compatible cards, the statue instead offers you a compensatory item that should help you evolve one of your cards the next time you encounter an Evolution Gem. 
 Before choosing to evolve, you can see what the card evolves into, the item to be sacrificed, and the final Mana cost.
 After selecting the evolution, choose which card(s) to sacrifice. Since the evolved card doesn't inherit Gems from the sacrificed items, you ideally want to use an item w i thout a Gem socketed. 
 But sometimes, sacrifices need to be made in the name of progress. If you do need to sacrifice an item with a Gem, choose the least impactful option.
 After that, enjoy your shiny new Evolution! Each Evolved card has a holographic foil effect that sets them apart from normal cards. In addition, they're typically more powerful and have a higher Mana cost. 
 For example, the Magic Wand is a 0-cost card that deals 30 base damage. The Evolved Holy Wand is a 2-cost card that deals a whopping 160 damage while still prioritizing any enemies that intend to attack!
 Grim Grimoire Location 
 The Grim Grimoire allows you to keep track of evolutions and check them in-game. You can find it the Library. Clear the zone once to unlock the West Wing. The difficulty 3 version of the library where you fight new enemies. From there, keep your eye out for a shiny bookshelf, bash into it a couple times to break it, and collect the Grim Grimoire.
 After you obtain the Grim Grimoire, you can check it via the pause menu. Here, you can see all of your known weapon Evolutions and unions. 
 In addition, it cycles between all discovered compatible items.
 Time to try out your newly Evolved cards on some referenss... if you can find any.
 For more Referensspelet game help, check out: 
 How to Heal 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 Stats Guide 
 Up Next: Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 Previous Crawlers Guide
 Next Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 Top Guide Sections
 Crawlers Guide 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Was this guide helpful?
 Leave feedback In This Guide
 Referensspelet: The Turbo Wildcard from Referensserien Poncle Initial Release: Apr 21, 2026
 Learn more 
 Go to comments 
 News • Reviews • Game Guides • Book Guides • Streaming Guides • LEGO Guides • Prime Big Deal Days • Planet Pokemon • IGN Store • Game Release Dates • MapGenie • Best Deals Today • Eurogamer • IGN YouTube • HowLongToBeat • Maxroll • VG247 • Rock Paper Shotgun • IGN TikTok • IGN on X • Contact Us • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use