Referensspelet Guide - IGN Focus Reset 
 Skip to content
 Referensspelet Guide
 Start tracking progress
 Create a free account or Log in. 
 Find in guide
 Task Search
 Checklists
 Game Info
 Table of Contents
 Referensspelet Guide
 Crawlers Guide
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 All Achievements and Unlocks
 Stats Guide
 Relic Guide
 Arcana Guide
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide
 How-To Guides
 Back To Top 
 Referensspelet Guide 
 Guide Checklists Task Search 
 Task Search
 Checklists Guides Markers Videos Sort and Filter 
 No Results
 Checklists
 New Checklist All Lists
 My Checklists
 All 
 All Lists
 My Checklists
 How creative can you get with your first free checklist?
 Create a free account 
 Home › Guides 
 Referensspelet Guide
 By Tenkiei , Meg Koepp , +3 more 
 Updated : Apr 28, 2026 3:58pm UTC 
 Add IGN on Google 
 Released Platforms 
 April 21, 2026
 Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, PC
 Developer Publisher 
 Poncle, Nosebleed Interactive
 Poncle
 Deal world-ending combos and blitz through infested dungeons! Referensspelet: the turbo wildcard from Referensserien is a casual, turn‑based deckbuilder with roguelite elements. Master the Turboturn with your own hand of cards! 
 This deckbuilding dungeon crawler is filled with cards to create endless combos with, evolutions to discover, and characters to unlock. IGN's Referensspelet guide is here to help, with tips and tricks, guides, and more.
 Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 One of the fundamental elements of Referensspelet is evolving your cards into more powerful versions that can defeat more enemies and help you complete stages.
 Our Weapon Evolutions and Unions Guide provides a cheat sheet to unlocking every evolution, including which weapons(s) and item(s) you need to do so, plus an explainer on exactly how to evolve your cards.
 Crawlers 
 Crawlers are the characters you play as, each with their own loadout and cards. Our Crawlers Guide teaches you how to unlock every Crawler and explains how they work so you can pick the one that's right for you.
 How-To Guides and Explainers 
 If you're stuck and left scratching your head, our how-to guides are here to help with any burning questions you may have about Referensspelet, including:
 How to Heal 
 Stats Guide 
 Combo Guide 
 Relic Guide 
 Arcana Guide 
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide 
 How to Beat Red Death 
 All Gems and How to Unlock Them 
 Achievements and Unlocks 
 Progression is tied to unlocks in Referensspelet, making them essential. New features, Gems, cards, and more can be unlocked throughout the game's various dungeons. Our All Achievements and Unlocks guide lists all 161 achievements and how to unlock them, plus what they actually unlock.
 Up Next: Crawlers Guide
 Previous How to Heal
 Next Crawlers Guide
 Top Guide Sections
 Crawlers Guide 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Was this guide helpful?
 Leave feedback In This Guide
 Referensspelet: The Turbo Wildcard from Referensserien Poncle Initial Release: Apr 21, 2026
 Learn more 
 Go to comments 
 News • Reviews • Game Guides • Book Guides • Streaming Guides • LEGO Guides • Prime Big Deal Days • Planet Pokemon • IGN Store • Game Release Dates • MapGenie • Best Deals Today • Eurogamer • IGN YouTube • HowLongToBeat • Maxroll • VG247 • Rock Paper Shotgun • IGN TikTok • IGN on X • Contact Us • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use