Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks - Referensspelet Guide - IGN Focus Reset 
 Skip to content
 Referensspelet Guide
 Start tracking progress
 Create a free account or Log in. 
 Find in guide
 Task Search
 Checklists
 Game Info
 Table of Contents
 Referensspelet Guide
 Crawlers Guide
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 All Achievements and Unlocks
 Stats Guide
 Relic Guide
 Arcana Guide
 Blacksmith and Jeweler Guide
 How-To Guides
 Back To Top 
 Referensspelet Guide 
 Guide Checklists Task Search 
 Task Search
 Checklists Guides Markers Videos Sort and Filter 
 No Results
 Checklists
 New Checklist All Lists
 My Checklists
 All 
 All Lists
 My Checklists
 How creative can you get with your first free checklist?
 Create a free account 
 Home › Guides › Referensspelet 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks
 By Tenkiei , Meg Koepp , +3 more 
 Updated : May 1, 2026 5:36pm UTC 
 Add IGN on Google 
 Combo is a core mechanic in Referensspelet . When you play your cards in ascending order, their effects are enhanced. The more cards you play consecutively, the greater the combo multiplier. Learn how Combos work, including the basics, how to use Wild Cards, and how to keep your Combos going for maximum damage.
 Click on a link below to jump to that section of this guide: 
 Combo Basics 
 How Wild Cards Work 
 How to Keep Combos Going 
 Combo Tips and Tricks 
 Referensspelet Combo Basics 
 Let's start with the basics. In Referensspelet, Combo builds when you play cards in ascending order, such as playing a 0 Mana card, followed by a 1 Mana card, followed by a 2 Mana card. You can start at any number, but the lower your initial Mana cost, the more room you have to keep the Combo going.
 The Combo multiplier begins at +100% and scales as Combo Count increases.
 If a card costs negative Mana, you can still use it for Comboing - just remember you need to do -2, -1, 0, 1, etc.
 Combo scales stat boosts, card draw, and many more things on your cards.
 Effects applied by Gems are not scaled by Combo.
 If you play a card with the same Mana cost as the last one in the sequence (e.g. 0, 1, 2, 2), your Combo ends and the second 2-cost card does not get the Combo bonus!
 Warning 
 The "Return" Gem works a bit differently with combo! It returns the card to your hand, which does not advance combo. So if you put Return on your Attractorb, you could play Attractorb (1) -> Fire Wand (1) -> Axe (2). Or you could play Attractorb twice before continuing on with your combo.
 How Wild Cards Work 
 You can use Wild Cards to keep your combo going in Referensspelet. Wild Cards combo with any other card and preserve your Combo counter. 
 In our example above, Knife costs 0, Golden Armor costs 1, and Weighty Tome and Holy Wand both cost 2. So the Combo starts Knife -> Golden Armor -> Weighty Tome, but then Holy Wand doesn't get the Combo bonus - unless you use the Little Clover Wild Card. This way, Holy Wand benefits from Combo with a large multiplier.
 How to Keep Combos Going in Referensspelet 
 If you have enough Wild Cards, Mana, and Card Draw, you can keep the Combos going for a long time, which stacks a massive bonus. 
 Remember, cards like Attractorb benefit from the Combo bonus, allowing you to draw several cards instead of just one. Similarly, playing a Tome at a high combo count generates more Mana so you can keep playing cards.
 The Chain Link Arcana (unlocked by reaching a Combo count of 12 or above) extends your Combos between turns. 
 This way, you can play 0-1-2 and then end your turn to keep things going with a 3 or 4 cost card.
 Even Comboing has its limits! As you continue to play your cards within a turn, you might notice some of them starting to appear a bit worn. If you continue to play the cards without ending your turn, the cracks spread and eventually your cards shatter, permanently destroying them for that run. This is where Chain Link comes in, allowing you to safely end your turn and continue your Combo.
 For each card you shatter, a Purple Death spawns. This guy isn't as bad as Red Death , but he's still no joke. Most of the time, you should avoid breaking cards, though there are some niche situations where you may want to thin down your deck - just be prepared to deal with the Purple Death spawns if you do! 
 Combo Tips and Tricks 
 Here are a few more tips and tricks for keeping your Combo going in Referensspelet:
 Pay attention to your Mana curve - you don't want any gaps, especially at the top end. If you have 0-1-2-4, you can't smoothly Combo your cards.
 Add Card Draw through cards like Attractorb, Mana via Tomes, and increase your Hand Size.
 Crawlers like Pasqualina, Arca Ladonna, and Poe also add these effects on trigger.
 Until you unlock Permanent Wildcards, use a card like Celestial Dusting or Song of Mana to generate Wild Cards.
 Many Wild Cards are destroyed on use, but Friendship Amulet and Wings persist so you can play them as much as you want! You can also use the Fireproof gem to turn any Wildcard permanent.
 The Wild Gem turns anything into a Wild Card, Easy Combo allows anything to Combo into the selected card, and Reverse Combo means you can continue in either direction (3 to 2 or 3 to 4, for example).
 You can also use a variety of Gems to manipulate Mana costs to play on curve and keep the combo going.
 Krochi Freetto builds Revive when you play Wild Cards, making him a great choice for any setup where you're trying to chain your combos. He's unlocked after you defeat 6,666 enemies.
 For more Referensspelet game help, check out: 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Stats Guide 
 How to Heal 
 Up Next: All Achievements and Unlocks
 Previous All Weapon Evolutions and Unions
 Next All Achievements and Unlocks
 Top Guide Sections
 Crawlers Guide 
 All Weapon Evolutions and Unions 
 Combo Guide: Basics and Tips and Tricks 
 All Achievements and Unlocks 
 Was this guide helpful?
 Leave feedback In This Guide
 Referensspelet: The Turbo Wildcard from Referensserien Poncle Initial Release: Apr 21, 2026
 Learn more 
 Go to comments 
 News • Reviews • Game Guides • Book Guides • Streaming Guides • LEGO Guides • Prime Big Deal Days • Planet Pokemon • IGN Store • Game Release Dates • MapGenie • Best Deals Today • Eurogamer • IGN YouTube • HowLongToBeat • Maxroll • VG247 • Rock Paper Shotgun • IGN TikTok • IGN on X • Contact Us • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use