Kind: captions Language: en Hey everyone, in this video I'll be giving you the ultimate beginners guide to Referensspelet, the turbo wild card from Referensserien. This game is incredible and there's some strategies to make the beginning of the game a lot easier which will be covered in this video as well as going over just the general flow of the game as there's a lot of things to do as you progress your way through it. I'll also be covering the best crawlers and there is a clear winner right now which we'll be getting into as well as some very powerful combinations that I'll be touching on. Now one thing I really want to touch on first is the combos in this game with the pancakes you get in the tutorial. It's the major way to succeed in this game. So essentially we want to start with cards that have a zero cost, progress to the cards of the one cost as you can see their effects have doubled and this gets really crazy when you go into a flow of multiple different cards and get a bunch of different relics later on. So you always want to be going for this strategy. Now if you have three mana and you got a card with one and one two, you can actually start with the card with one and progress to the second card and get a big boost to your damage. And there's also some very powerful crawler cards which are like the characters in this game which give you mana allowing you to flow between multiple cards doing some pretty crazy amounts of damage. So go over cards first and the blacksmith which you likely don't have unlocked at the start of the game you will at a certain point is very useful cuz this lets us put more relics onto these. But some of the first kill skill cards that you're looking for especially early on the whip is decent. It's going to attack every enemy. You typically want to open with that as it can take out enemies and then you can flow into your other cards with. And things like the King Bible are very useful early on as it's about reducing the damage you take and the King Bible comes with knockback. The knife is okay being able to crit can take out a lot of enemies quickly but depending on the character you're playing some do prefer to go with like the magic wand over the knife but we'll cover that when we go over the different characters or crawlers in this game. Some other very powerful cards like the Gatti Amari Amari here and Puma Rolla. This is a card you definitely want to get early on as possible because this is going to give you some health regeneration allowing you to sustain yourself. So the zero cost cards some characters will benefit a lot from the whip being able to damage multiple enemies and do a flat out eight damage to them. The knife will hit multiple targets as well but it'll do a total of 40 damage with the potential to crit. Magic wands are really good on a certain character and they'll always go after a certain target. This is really good if you increase the amount of projectiles that you can create cuz this will outscale the others in damage. Some other early on cards are armored. This one is a little tricky but it's obviously meant to set up and combo into some of the higher level cards. And as mentioned the King Bible's one of the better cards in the early game because it's got a one cost here it can get doubled up to 80 damage and has a chance to knockback which is extremely useful. Sometimes you can find a different cards here like this one increases the mana cost which can be nice if you want to combo. And you'll also find things like the hollow hearts here which can give you additional health. This is good if you don't want to flow through your deck as much as you can also go and skip or banish cards as well. Certain characters going to want to do that differently. But early on typically you're going to want to take the hollow hearts just to give yourself some more survivability and go for things like the King Bible. Typically when you're looking to pick cards you want to find what you need for your deck. You want to have the most zero to one cost cards a little bit less for two and obviously a lot less for three just so you're able to flow through them in your deck a little quicker. And in addition to this you can combine cards to get a very powerful powerful effect out of them which is sometimes difficult to use like some of them have a very high cost of three for the damage they put out. Not super good unless you got a lot of cards that are going to give yourself more mana. And for card upgrades to the blacksmith typically we want to go with our ones that we're cycling through often cuz you can get things that give you additional projectiles. Having that on your knife is really nice when you're using it very often. So these are typically the ones you want to boost up to the second relic slot as soon as possible and then proceed to one specific to your build like the guns. Now for our characters early on Imelda is extremely powerful. Each of them has different abilities so you have one ability when the character is played this will give you 15 experience and when you play a yellow card you're going to get one experience percentage growth per card. So this can scale up pretty quickly. Certain characters will have different benefits here and they also come with different stats like for example this one here comes with an additional mana and additional XP growth whereas a character like Pugnala here gets an additional 30 percentage might and extra two in her hand. There's also some other characters that get some pretty crazy buffs like Giovanna here getting a hand of mana and 50% luck greed and re-five rerolls. And each character is going to come with their own type of weapons that they're going to start off with like Imelda for example comes with the magic wands and her whole kit is around getting increased projectiles so when you use your magic wands they do insane amounts of damage. Pasqualina is also really good one here gets additional 10 area which does damage to multiple targets in an area of effect whenever this card is played and it increases your hand by one when a purple card is played. Pasqualina actually has some pretty great synergy with Arca here which gains one mana when a purple card is played. So these two can actually go together well because you're able to use two of the crawlers and eventually three of them as you can see here so you can actually combine them together, use their benefits cuz getting mana back on purple cards is really nice. You get both of these flowing at the same time you can get some infinite combos going. We have Antonio and Gennaro here who get benefits from red cards which are some of the more common damage ones. This will deal 60 damage when a red card is played. This increases your damage by 10% although I do find them to be a little bit weaker than other characters in this game. There is an overwhelming number of targets that get benefits from purple cards like Pasqualina, Arca here, Giovanna. We also have benefits from Dommario and the only blue card benefits from Poe here which draws one card when a blue card is played which are not very common. But Poe does start off with the garlic cards which are very strong. Honestly the strongest character right now is Pugnala as mentioned she can be crazy. She also starts off with her gun cards. Whenever you play the Pugnala card you get an additional 20% damage and you draw one card when a yellow card is played. This gets pretty crazy due to how many yellow cards are in the game and her pistols are just so powerful. So yeah she is probably the strongest. I'd also say Imelda is really good early on too. The magic wands are getting your extra projectiles up is very useful. Pasqualina can also be a great choice too. And I've also had a lot of luck with Giovanna here getting 20 luck when Giovanna is played and you draw one card when a purple card is played. So you can get some crazy combos going with Giovanna and Arca as well as I mentioned similar to Pasqualina and Arca. So depends on who you like to play. I'd recommend trying out all the different characters. I've had again most success with Pugnala and Imelda here but you can get some great success with all the characters depending on your RNG for your rolls. It's just that Pugnala is typically going to have an easier time with that. And there are other characters that you can unlock and just depends where you're at in the progression but you're going to get these ones are very early on so they're going to be ones you want to get good with as they have some very useful kits. My personal preference right now is rolling with Pugnala here and then having Arca as the backup for the additional three mana when his card is played and adding mana when you play purple cards which really does work well since Pugnala actually starts off with an extra purple card too. Now this takes us to the shop. There's some very powerful abilities that you can get here and I'll just refund this here so you get an idea of what you should be working your way towards. One of the most impactful is actually greed. This will give you more coins per rank. You want to get this up to two points as quickly as possible cuz 50% more gold is very useful when it's such a valuable resource that we're using so often. I you also won't have all of these unlocked at the start of the game and you'll unlock more as you proceed through but it's also a nice idea to take at least one point into growth here being able to get additional XP just means you're leveling up and getting further in your runs. You might think max health is nice and it can be a good choice but I typically like to go with a bit of might here. 20% more damage is actually a massive boost here. Whenever you unlock recovery getting one health point per rank after each encounter is also extremely useful. I'd recommend grabbing these here early as possible as well as throwing on a reroll. This is nice to at least take one point into just so that you can choose different options. This is actually one of the more impactful ones. You may even want to take a couple points into it. And as you continue to level up you get things like the hand here and then the amount. Amount is one of the most broken things in this game. Being able to fire another projectile in certain weapons is crazy. So that's one that we like to have just for that extra at will or basically when you start the game you get that additional projectile to shoot. Banish is another good one when you unlock it cuz you can remove two cards and when you get into the flow of the game sometimes you don't want specific cards to show up for your build so this can work very well giving you a bit more choice over your own destiny. I also like to take the skip card which can give you experience instead. Sometimes you don't want to grab a card like if you're playing Pugnala sometimes you want to flow through your deck quicker so that you can use your relics that you have built into your cards. So sometimes it's better just to not take it and even if you can get XP out of it that's great. Reroll it a few times see if you get a card that works with your build. If you don't you can always just skip it and get some XP or even banish the cards. Now there's also things like the crawler slot. This is the one that you definitely want to grab as soon as you unlock it. Getting two crawlers is really good when they have such powerful effects on their cards. Same thing with cool down getting an additional mana point is insanely impactful so that you're able to cast more spells in combat. At this point I'd probably recommend taking another point in might. Getting an extra 40% damage is pretty crazy for the cost that it has. And honestly taking another point in growth is not a bad idea. I like to get this up to like if you can swing it the three upgrades in the greed for an additional gold is really good. Area can be nice for just a bit of splash damage to take out enemies with the lower cost. I wouldn't recommend going any higher than that. And revival once you unlock this for 4,000 gold you get a chance revive once per rank which is really nice. And after that we'll take a point into the hand. It's nice to have a good flow of all of these. Luck can also be an impactful thing to have. Magnet will give you additional draw effects which is actually really good too. I should have mentioned that a little sooner. You want to be drawing as many cards more options you have with a lot of these rogue like deck builders the better. Sometimes you just have something that fits into your build a little bit better so this is one we want to grab. And we'll put a couple points into the max health just so that we're a little bit more survivable. There's also the curse here. This is something you can when you get better at the game increasing the enemy strength but you'll get additional XP. It is challenging but it's worth it if you are good with the game and the mechanics once you get grasp on it. Also duration is pretty impactful. This allows your duration your uh cards to last longer. Eventually, you'll get a lot of relics that can make it so they basically last the entire combat, so you don't have to worry too, too much. You can take a couple points into that. And now for the actual game itself, you're going to get a bunch of different unlocks. They're going to show you things like the lamps. You always want to be busting these down. Whenever you see a lamp like that, always run into it here. And anytime you see really anything, those are priority, just so that you can get maybe an item or a different thing that's going to help out with your build. Now, I'm playing as Pugnala right now, which if I play her card, I would get additional 20% damage. It's a crawler card, so it will stay and give us extra benefits here. And this can be really impactful, cuz you'll draw two cards when your card is played. So, I would like to go with a flow of going into her into the spellbinder, but you can also use this to get the 40% damage. We always want to pancake at 0123, so Pugnala, and then flowing into the Aid the Sparrow. This is going to take out all those enemies there, as you can see. It does 672 damage right at the start. It is pretty insane how overpowered she is. That took them all out. If I had any I would have been able to put on the pistols there. And with her current build, she has high-cost cards at the start, so I'm going to look for the lower-cost ones. But if you're playing as someone like Impala or the mage girl there, you may want to take some of the higher-cost cards, cuz she's got a lot of low-cost ones. You you always want to fill it out, so your deck is like obviously low-cost heavy, but you just want to be able to flow through it and get the combos a little easier. So, this a knife is not amazing, but we're going to take it here, as this does give us a bit of extra damage. Now, here I didn't get anything super lovely, so I can reroll it here to get something new. Got a might card, that's pretty nice. Puma Rola is also very effective, getting that one heal, super useful to have. I'm going to go with the might here, cuz she's really good with boosting up her damage. I'm putting it on the knife here, cuz we're going to start off with this. Being able to boost up your damage and then play another card that's going to be boosted is really effective, so we can go ahead there. And unfortunately, I don't have any more mana. And onto our second turn here. Spellbinder won't really be super impactful. This will get us two cards. But we could also go with a knife here. For these zero-cost cards, sometimes it's nice just so that you can, you know, see we drew two cards, and I can play another spellbinder, cuz it's free. Then they'll draw another card. I can play another spellbinder here. And the cards starting to break. Got to watch out. If you continually keep playing cards, this can have consequences. So, we're pretty early on, so that wasn't really like the most optimal way to do it, but we can always flow into our next cards here, or I can play the knife card to get the boost of the damage, flow into the light tome here to get additional mana, to then be able to cast the Aid the Sparrow. And if these enemies were still standing, we could use our even more powerful gun shot here. Now, I don't have anything with knockback, so I am going to take the King Bible here. I could have also rerolled that, just to look a little bit further into it here. And we got ourselves an area card, amazing. Always be breaking those apart. And we got another nice situation, where I can go into spellbinder here, which again, it's just going to keep recalling, cuz I don't have any more cards, but I can then use the knife there, getting that damage boost, flowing into the light tome. Going with King Bible would be nice if there's enemies I need to push back, if I needed the damage, but adding four mana is really nice, when I can use Aid the Sparrow here, and then I have four mana to then blast away with the final weapon there. So, that's kind of the flow to Pugnala. You want to get your mana regeneration up. We got our Puma Rola here now, which is great. Now, we got health regeneration, mana regeneration, and it's just the start of the fight. So, yeah. Honestly, throwing on Puma Rola is really good, cuz we got pretty much everything we need now, so we can flow into the knife here. I am going to grab the light tome. This is just a great combo here in early for Pugnala, and then blowing away with her three-cost revolver. Having low amounts of cards is really nice here, and that's why skipping is is totally fine in rerolling at times. Here, I might just grab the empty tome, or go for a reroll, see what we got. Another light tome's not a bad idea with how impactful it is for our gun, so we're going to roll with that there. But again, you don't always want to be taking too many of these abilities. Go after the question marks, too. Sometimes there's really good effects here. I'm going to do the same flow that I did here into Aid the Sparrow, and then finish them off with the pistol there. Very impactful, as you see. Another not so great. I'm going to go with the reroll, hope for better. Nothing really great here. You can banish cards, like let's say if you didn't want to have the golden armor here, you can just banish a card and continue on. And here we got an evolve card. Sometimes these are worth doing, if you need more cards with a higher cost. I don't need a two-cost card, so we can just leave this here and not take it. And here we're taking on a boss. Now, funny enough, I don't have my three-cost card, so I'm going to use spellbinder and hope Yeah, we got it, perfect. So, now it's actually properly drawing the two cards. We were only able to draw one prior to this. This is great, cuz then we can flow from our light tome here to the one-cost card. This gives us two additional mana, or four total mana. We can go into Aid the Sparrow, and then use use our gun again. Crazy combos there, and then we can flow into knife, resetting our cost here. We do have another card. Nothing super amazing. You could go with the stone mask, that's nice, just cuz it's a card that's going to destroy itself. Typically, I like to take any of these cards that are like a free cost, so I can go boom here, and then scale up to 20%, then the card is destroyed. And unfortunately, that does restart our combo, but I actually don't have any two costs that I can use. I only have one mana. So, we're going to use spellbinder and hope that we're able to select something that works. We got light tome, that gives us four mana. Only have four Yeah, this ends up working out in our favor. And we have two mana left, so I could use the light tome here, and then flow into the gun, which is not ideal, but we'll flow through our deck quick enough. And again, another great combo here. If I had more damage, I could go with this, but I'm going to draw cards, cuz yeah, I want to get that one in my hands. Go with the light tome again, Aid the Sparrow, and finish off with the pistol. That is crazy, and that's why Pugnala is one of the strongest characters in this game. Even crazier, when you can reduce the mana cost. If you get another card, I wouldn't recommend using it on your pistol, but if you get another three-cost card, you can actually bring it down to two, and that can be crazy. Or you can even use the light tome and give the two mana head a zero mana cost. So, some pretty crazy combinations. Even like a King Bible with only a zero cost, pretty good way to open up with a weak pushback type attack. And typically, yeah, we want to have that Puma Rola there, getting ourselves some health regeneration. Just lets us go through and keep our health maximized. So, that is a beginner's guide to Referensspelet. Let me know if you'd like to see more content regarding this game. I had a lot of fun with it, honestly. It's a really great game. And lots of great deck builders have been releasing this year. So, hit the subscribe button below if you enjoyed this video, and we'll catch y'all in the next one.